Hello, my name is Vladislav Tolkach. We will talk about the implementation of the strategy.
Managers can be of two types. The first type is entrepreneurial.
They understand very well what the situation on the market will look like in 2-3 years
and can offer their companies a clear concept of further development that will lead the company to success.
But it is usually very difficult for them to lay out this concept on a package of actions that are understandable for individual employees,
to provide deadlines, indicators and to carry out control over the implementation of these events.
The problem of many companies is that they do not have a clear concept of how to implement the strategy.
They do not have a clear understanding of how to implement the strategy.
We will discuss these issues during this course.
I will say a few words about myself. The main place of my work is the Academy of Controlling.
I have been engaged in the topic of controlling and strategy for several years.
The main structure of the course is as follows.
First, we will talk about the stage of implementation of the strategy, which is already developed in the general cycle of strategic management of business.
We will talk about the typical difficulties that companies face at this stage.
The strategy is already developed, it is proven, it seems correct, but it needs to be implemented.
Shakespeare said very well in the Venice Coup,
that if it were as easy to do something as to know what to do, then all the huts would be palaces and all the chapels would be temples.
Many people think that it is more difficult to implement a strategy than to develop it.
The second part of our course is the logic of managing goals and key indicators in a company.
There is such a concept as Management by Objectives.
The most popular tool in this concept is the so-called balanced system of indicators,
proposed by Robert Kaplan.
He uses the term Balanced Scorecard, which is usually translated into Russian as a balanced system of indicators.
This is the main tool for the implementation of strategies,
tested in various companies, various industries, various strategies, and proved to be the best.
This system is usually created for the company as a whole,
and we will analyze the technology of creating this system for the company as a whole in detail.
After that, the so-called cascading is usually carried out.
Cascading is the creation of such systems of goals and indicators for structural units of an organization.
This is the so-called decomposition, and this is the next part of our program, which we will also discuss in great detail.
And we will conclude with the point in which we will discuss how the system of goals and indicators of structural units
is connected with the management accounting system and with the system of personal stimulation.
So, the first section is the stage of the implementation of the strategy, in general, the cycle of strategic management of business.
In general, the cycle of strategic management of business can be represented as the following scheme.
There are five stages in the chain of interrelations.
The first stage is the so-called strategic analysis, when the company tries to understand
what the configuration of forces in the external environment will look like in the near future,
and tries to assess its own strengths and weaknesses at the moment,
in order to apply all this to the next stage, stage number two,
where the company formulates and evaluates alternatives for its own further development.
There can be several, two, three, four.
After evaluating and weighing the strategic alternatives, the company usually decides on one
strategic alternative, which is then prescribed as a system of strategic goals and events.
After that, you can say that the company has a strategy.
And then a rather complex stage of its implementation begins.
This is the stage we are talking about in this course.
At the stage of the implementation of the strategy, we can talk about the presence of rather typical difficulties,
which many companies have in different industries with different strategies.
The first difficulty is that not all employees of a company of a high level in the hierarchy,
being up at 3 a.m., can clearly formulate the strategy of the company they work for.
Not all of them.
Employees of the second and third levels of the hierarchy should understand where we are going
and what will happen to the company in two, three, four years.
The second difficulty is that employees of the party's general line can formulate it.
Maybe not at 3 a.m., being up, but they can formulate the party's general line.
But they find it difficult to say what they should do at their workplace for this.
And a very important point is what they should not do in order for the company to successfully implement its strategy.
The second difficulty is how my interaction with the adjacent structural units should be.
Employees should understand not only my role, but also the role of my colleagues from the structural units,
how I interact with them in order for the party's general line to exist.
The third difficulty is that employees can understand the party's general line and their own role,
but they may disagree with the party's general line.
There are a lot of reasons for this.
One of the reasons is that they were not invited to the meeting where the strategy was being developed.
Or the employees may have different views on how the company should develop.
And since they disagree with the company's strategy,
it is unlikely that they will invest 100% in order for this strategy to be implemented.
The fourth difficulty is the lack of control.
The strategy is translated into a package of actions that is clear for the employees.
There are deadlines and indicators, but there is no control function.
The company's management did not have time to set the control points and implement this control
for the implementation of the measures that are necessary to achieve the strategic goals.
Another difficulty is that the strategy of the company does not inspire people
or is not related to their system of stimulation.
The employees cannot say how the actions of the mentioned management are related to the system of compensation.
They may simply not do it because there will be no rewards or punishments.
Therefore, it is very important to introduce a strategy with a motivation system
and a stimulus system for the employees.
The conclusion is simple.
The organization and its structural divisions need a simple and clear system of goals and indicators
related to the system of accountability and the system of stimulation of the employees.
And we will talk about how to create this system of goals and indicators for the company.
The goal management logic is quite simple.
As a rule, the goals of the business as a whole are created at the first stage.
We consider the company as a single whole and we can say that the company has certain goals.
After that, the declaration of the goals is carried out.
The company is not limited to the goals of the business.
We can say that the company has certain goals.
After that, the decomposition is carried out and we talk about the goals of the company's structural divisions.
About business units or functional divisions.
At the stage number three, we develop the activities, actions, projects,
the implementation of which is necessary to achieve the goals of the structural divisions.
After developing this package of activities, we can start to implement them.
Here is a very important point.
The function of management control is needed.
And, as a rule, not everything goes as we planned, not everything goes as we planned.
Therefore, very often companies have to make adjustments to the package of actions
that they have come up with to achieve their own goals.
In addition to control, at the stage of implementation of the event,
some adjustments are usually made.
Then, when we have completed the package of events, we can assess the results.
If they are good, then we can talk about the reward for the achieved result.
So, the cycle of goal management is quite simple.
The goals of the business as a whole, the goals of the structural divisions,
the events and projects necessary for their achievement,
their implementation, control, adjustments,
assessment of the achieved results at the end,
and compensation, reward, bonuses.
The most popular tool for the concept of goal management
and key indicators is the system proposed by Robert Kaplan.
He called it a balanced scorecard.
The most popular version of this term in Russian is a balanced scorecard.
Let's look at the logic of this system.
It is quite simple.
We start to write the goals of the company as a whole
and we write them in four interconnected projections.
At the first stage, the company sets its own financial goals.
We can say that most companies exist to make a profit.
And we talk about the targeted profits that we want to make
in the framework of the project number one, the project finance.
After we have determined our own financial goals at the first stage,
we think about what positions on the market we want to achieve
in order to make the targeted profit that we want to make.
At the second stage, we think about who our client is,
who could provide us with these profits,
and what our product portfolio should look like
in order to make the targeted group that we have chosen
count the money that we want to make.
So, the goals at the second stage are the goals in the client-product projection.
The question that we have to answer here is very simple and complex.
The question is, who and what do we sell to?
What are the leading positions in the targeted segments that we want to achieve?
And how should our product portfolio look like
in order to achieve the goals in the top projection, the finance projection?
Having determined the goals at the second projection,
we move on to the third, which is usually called the business process.
Here we list the goals that we should achieve in the chain of our own processes,
starting with the design of the product,
continuing with the purchase of resources, production, branding,
sales, distribution and services.
In the third projection, we think about the business processes
that our business consists of.
The fourth stage is the goals in the personnel projection.
We think about the goals that we should achieve
in terms of the competence of our personnel,
in terms of their satisfaction and motivation
in order to achieve the goals in the client-process projection and finance.
So, the logic of the goal setting is quite simple.
The first stage is finance, the second stage is the client and product portfolio,
the third stage is the business processes,
and the fourth stage is the personnel.
The main gurus who think and write on this topic are
Robert Kaplan and his colleague David Norton.
Four books of these authors are translated into Russian.
I will list them briefly.
The Balanced System of Indicators. From Strategy to Action.
The Organization Based on Strategy.
The Third Book is Strategic Maps.
And the Fourth Book is Strategic Unity.
The German-speaking guru is Peter Horvath.
His book is also in Russian.
It is called The Introduction to the Balanced System of Indicators.
I want to note that this book has a lot of practical examples from different industries.
And, in addition, there are researches, surveys of companies from different industries,
how they understand this system, what results they have achieved,
what they have achieved, what they have not.
The information about this is well presented in this book.
In addition, I should mention Paul Niven's book
The Balanced System of Indicators.
And Hubert Rampersad's book The Universal System of Indicators.
So, the strategy of a company at the business level is described in four interconnected projections.
The first stage is the financial projection,
in which we determine our own financial goals and results.
In the second stage, we write down the goals in the client and product projection.
But it should be noted that the common standard logic of the goal for companies from different industries
and different strategies is unlikely to be invented.
All companies can have their own specific nuances.
In particular, the second projection can look different for different companies.
As a rule, companies from all industries with any strategies need to build relations with their clients.
And the client projection is available for the vast majority of companies.
But some companies, within the framework of the second projection,
can set goals in relation to the state.
For example, if a business company intends to build relations with officials, state bodies,
and requires a lot of attention from top management,
then within the framework of the second projection,
goals can be set in relation to the state.
There are companies whose business is based on very good relations with suppliers.
And relations with suppliers can also be prescribed within the framework of the second projection.
Or relations with partners, which are very important for the business,
can also be prescribed in the second projection.
Therefore, for some companies, this projection is not called a client and product,
but a client and product of the state.
Or a client and product of a supplier.
In fact, the second projection is intended to list all those
with whom we in our business, in our industry, should build relations to earn some money.
The third projection is business processes.
The entire chain of processes of the company is considered here, in a large cage, as a rule.
But the entire chain of processes.
And at the fourth stage, we already talked about what people we need
to achieve the goals in the above projections,
and what kind of infrastructure we need.
Infrastructure is usually called software products, equipment, buildings,
maybe transport, which people need,
personnel need to perform processes normally.
And the connection between these four projections is quite logical.
The connections go from bottom to top.
And we see on this diagram that if the organization managed to lure the right personnel into the company,
managed to buy the infrastructure it needs,
then this right personnel, inspired, directed in the right direction,
will ensure the achievement of the goals in the business processes section.
If our processes are built, look as we want them to look,
then most likely, customers will be satisfied with us.
We will have very good positions on the market,
and satisfied and loyal customers usually get a lecture with money,
and in the end we get the amount of money we want to get.
So this is the map of goals, which Kaplan calls the strategic map.
He uses the term strategy map.
It is written from bottom to top.
Stage 1 is finance, stage 2 is customer and product,
stage 3 is business processes, and stage 4 is personnel.
But the connections between the projections go in the opposite direction.
From personnel to business processes, from business processes to customers,
and from customers to finance.
Let's talk about all four projections of the strategy description in more detail.
The first projection is the finance projection,
which should give a clear answer to the question,
what financial results our company wants to achieve.
We build a business oriented towards earning a million,
or we build a business oriented towards earning one billion,
or we build a business oriented towards earning one thousand.
There are quite different businesses,
and it is very important to understand at the first stage,
what business we are going to build.
The list of goals in the finance projection is quite standard.
As a rule, the company in this projection writes the goals related to its own turnover,
sales, profit, and cash flow.
This is a very important parameter.
As the American financialist Alfred Rappaport said,
profit is opinion, cash is fact.
Profit is profit, but we should also monitor the amount of cash flow.
Therefore, the goals related to the value of the cash flow
usually exist in the company in this projection.
Next, a very important value that most businessmen should observe
is the profitability of the invested capital.
That is, the profit we have earned,
we compare it with the amount of capital invested in the business,
and looking at the value of this parameter,
we understand how effective the dollars, euros or rubles invested in our business are.
And finally, another category in the finance projection is the business value.
This category is of interest only to those businessmen who want to sell,
who grow their business for sale.
The business value is the same as the well-being of shareholders
or the size of the company's own capital.
As a rule, shareholders want to become richer,
and therefore, the goals related to the business value
can be of absolutely all companies, public and not,
focused on sales and not focused on sales.
On this slide, in the form of these yellow ovals,
the system of financial goals of one company is presented,
which works in the kitchen furniture market,
and by doing the goal projection,
they formulated the goals in the finance section,
related to the following categories.
This is the target turnover, the target profit,
the target value of the cash flow,
the target value of the profitability invested in the capital,
and the target value of the business value.
You can see that there are certain causal links between these categories.
We can say that the more turnover there is in a company,
the more profit there will be in the company.
The earned profit increases the value of the company's own capital,
so we draw a line from the profit to the business value.
The same is true if the profitability invested in the company's capital
is greater than the value of the capital
that the company used in this period,
this also contributes to the fact that the value of the business is increasing.
In general, we can say that increasing the value of the business
is the ultimate goal of most companies.
Or increasing the well-being of shareholders,
which is basically the same, you can put an equal sign.
So, at the first stage,
we understand, we have agreed on what financial results we want to achieve.
After that, we can move on to the second stage,
in which we discuss a very problematic issue,
who and what we will sell,
who is our target client,
what target audiences we are oriented to,
and what should our product portfolio look like
in order to get the money that we want to earn from our clients.
So, the second stage is called product clients.
Two main questions,
what are the target audiences we want to achieve,
and what should our product portfolio look like.
Let's look at this again using the example of a company
that works in the kitchen furniture market.
As we can see, the company strives for the leading positions in the target segments.
But a few words about this business.
In principle, the kitchen furniture market can be divided into three segments.
There is the economy class segment,
there is the comfort class segment,
and there is the premium class segment.
Well, this is the difference between the kitchen and the price.
The company works in the comfort class,
and it works both in the capital and in the regions.
The company has quite ambitious goals,
it wants to be a leader both in the capital and in the regions.
This is fixed in the goal,
leading positions in the target segments.
A very important point in the second projection is to understand
what are the main factors that affect the satisfaction of our customers.
In this business, we see that the satisfaction of the customers of the kitchen furniture comfort class
is influenced by how they are serviced in the salon by the sellers,
how quickly the order is made,
what is the waiting time for the furniture.
The third point is very important,
it is the design and individuality of the project.
I want the kitchen I ordered to be individual,
sharpened millimeter by millimeter in size,
individual in design, and so on.
It is clear that this product should be functional and high-quality.
In addition, a very important point is the service support.
We can refer to the service as delivery, kitchen, installation,
as well as post-sale warranty service.
So, we prescribe 7 main factors that affect the satisfaction of the customers in this segment.
This is a very important point,
because the readers of the card, the staff,
walking around the office past this card,
can clearly understand what other factors affect the satisfaction of our entire audience.
Once again, this is the service in the salon,
the efficiency of the order,
design and performance,
functionality, quality, service and warranty.
In principle, this list can be considered a technical task,
a technical task for the third projection,
in which we prescribe the goals for business processes.
The third goal in this project is to expand the range.
The company has only produced kitchen furniture,
the average price range in the comfort class,
but in the near future it is going to expand the range,
supplement it with children's furniture and bathroom furniture.
One of the target segments of the company is young families,
who recently bought an apartment,
first of all, they bought a kitchen,
soon they will have a baby,
and the baby needs furniture,
so if you work with them in the kitchen,
they will be loyal,
and in a few years you can sell children's furniture to the same people.
The company's leadership considers it advisable to expand the range,
to add kitchen furniture to the children's,
today it is a kitchen, tomorrow it is a children's,
and bathroom furniture.
In general, the company has three main goals for the client's projection of the product,
the first is to increase the satisfaction of the clients,
we understand what it consists of,
this is a very important point,
if we increase the satisfaction of the clients,
we will consolidate our leading positions,
and we will achieve this in the leading positions in the target segments,
there are two types of companies,
the capital and the regions,
and the second goal,
which contributes to the achievement of leading positions in the target segments,
is to expand the range.
It should be noted that in the second projection,
in fact, the company lists all those counter-agents
with whom it is necessary to build relations
in order to earn the profit that we want to earn,
in the first projection.
In addition to clients,
we said that it could be state structures,
it could be society,
it could be all kinds of partners,
it could be suppliers.
If the business of the company
depends very much on the relationship with the state,
then the second projection is divided into two parts,
it will be called clients of the state,
and the companies write,
and they will be able to build relations with the state,
officials, and so on.
Society can also be part of the second projection,
if, for example, the business of the company
causes damage to the ecological character,
if the company is engaged in the production of products
and the organization of the company may not like it,
then in any case, the company has to build relations
with the organization of Greenpeace,
and this will be said in the second projection.
Partners.
For example, the business school
in its field can base its strategy
on very close relations with partner structures
from other countries,
business schools from Europe and America,
the diplomas of which it presents on some territory.
It is very important for this business school
to maintain very good relations with its partners,
the diplomas of which it offers to customers on the local market.
Or suppliers can be very important for the company.
For example, the company presents a product
of some manufacturer on a certain market,
and would not like this manufacturer
to sell this product to some other dealer.
Therefore, it will be written in the map
to create long-term partnership relations with the supplier
and not to allow him to sell his own product to someone else,
except us.
In principle, the state, society, partners, suppliers
can be added to the second projection.
The third projection is the business process projection.
We will consider it again using the example of the company
that produces kitchen furniture.
In the large cell, the business of the company
consists of 14 processes.
Nine of them belong to the category of primary.
The primary processes are those that participate
in the creation of values for a certain target audience.
In particular, this is market research,
branding,
interior design,
interior layout on the ant trail,
and its correct design.
This is within the process number three.
Within the process number four,
the company receives and processes the customer's order.
The customer comes to the salon, chooses and designs the kitchen.
The final design is completed within the process number five.
The sixth process is the purchase of resources.
The seventh is the production.
Within the eighth process,
the delivery of the kitchen and its installation are carried out.
The ninth is the warranty and post-warranty service.
These are the main processes that form the value for the client.
In addition, the company has auxiliary service providers.
Five of them were selected.
BP-10, security system,
legal support for business and construction in relation to the state,
the 11th is the IT and information system,
the 12th is the financial system,
the 13th is the management of the staff,
and the 14th is the general management.
It is very useful to define the business process
before writing the goals in the business process project.
The question we ask ourselves
when we formulate the goals in the business process project
is what changes in the chain of our business processes
we should make to achieve the goals in the client and staff project.
The company we are considering
has come to the conclusion that the goals in the business process project
will be the following.
The goal is to improve the quality and functionality of the product.
This goal will probably always be correct.
There is no limit to perfection.
The company is also going to pay attention to the quality of its product
and its functionality.
A very important point in their business is the speed of order execution.
How fast we make the food for our client.
This is a very important factor of competitive struggle
and a very important factor of influencing the customer satisfaction.
Therefore, the goal of increasing the speed of order execution is also very important.
Service support of customers,
delivery, kitchen installation, kitchen and post-sale service
are also very important.
Therefore, there is a goal to increase the level of service.
The company is already well-established,
but there is no limit to perfection.
Therefore, further work is also necessary.
An important point in the business is the places where the salons are placed,
how they are designed and how they work.
The expansion of the network of salons in the capital and in the regions
is also a very important goal.
One of the features of the company is that,
unlike most competitors,
the company is trying to offer the client ultra-new things in the field of design and technology.
The company is actively learning from the leaders of its industry,
from the Italians, Germans, Scandinavians,
and offers new ideas in the local market from the field of design or technology
of product manufacturing.
Therefore, the goal of introducing designer and technological innovations
in their business model is also very important.
In principle, we see that all these five goals
contribute to the strengthening of the brand of the company.
The success factor in business is also very important.
The company has formulated two more goals from the service process.
The company is beginning a stage of reasonable bureaucratization.
This involves the creation of a controlling system
and the construction of a system for quality management and the implementation of corporate standards.
The company has passed the stage of rapid growth.
The growth is slowly ending.
The stage of maturity is coming.
The management of the company believes it is very important
to carry out reasonable bureaucratization of the company.
After understanding what goals we should achieve in the business process,
we can think about what kind of personnel we need,
with what competencies to achieve these goals.
And we, accordingly, move on to the fourth and last projection,
which is usually called the infrastructure personnel.
The question is what competencies we need,
what we want from the personnel,
and what we should do for it to be inspired, motivated,
and to give 100-120% to achieve the goals in the business process,
in clients and in finance.
In addition, to achieve the goals in the projection process,
we need infrastructure.
This is all that the personnel will have in their hands,
everything they need to complete the tasks that we want them to do.
We see that this furniture factory strives to increase the personnel qualification.
This is always the right goal.
In this case, the company will pay more attention to the qualification of production personnel.
The personnel who are engaged in marketing and sales,
as well as their own designers.
In any case, we have to think about the satisfaction of the personnel,
about their motivation, this is also a very important goal.
There are two goals in terms of infrastructure.
The company implements modern IT systems, there are three of them.
The IT design system is implemented,
the system that supports management accounting and budget is implemented,
and the CRM system is implemented.
Another goal of the company in terms of infrastructure is to expand production.
The company has one production site,
but it wants to have three production centers in the strategic perspective,
and two need to be built.
This is what the set of strategic goals of this furniture factory looks like.
Robert Kaplan says that 20 is plenty.
He believes that in 20 sentences we can formulate our own strategy.
We must declare 20 main goals, plus or minus.
They are connected by a logical cause-and-effect relationship.
If we achieve the goals in the design of personnel,
then it contributes to the achievement of the goals in the design of processes.
Achieving the goals in the design of processes contributes to the achievement of the goals in the design of clients.
And finally, all this works to ensure that we earn the profit we want to earn.
Next, I would like to offer you a very interesting survey results,
which was conducted by Pricewaterhouse, a consulting company among European companies.
The question asked by the businessman was as follows.
What indicators do you consider to be critically important in terms of the strategy you are pursuing in your industry?
The question was not asked what indicators you use in your practice.
The question was what indicators are critically important in your business,
given that you have such a strategy.
Let's go through four projections.
The first one is the financial projection.
As you can see on this graph, the most popular indicator is the profit.
80% of respondents say that, given that we have such a strategy,
it is our turn to make a significant contribution.
The second most popular indicator in the financial section is the operating profit.
Companies strive to achieve the goal of operating profit.
Operating profit is usually called the profit that the company earns
under the so-called operating activities,
without taking into account other income and other expenses from other sources.
If we consider a business related to the transportation of people from point A to point B,
the operating profit in this business is the profit that the air carrier earns from the sale of tickets to the plane.
In addition, the air carrier can add other income.
It can be the sale of drinks and jewelry on the plane,
it can be advertising on the plane,
it can be other sources of income.
But the operating profit in this business is the profit from the transportation of people from point A to point B.
The third most popular indicator is the cash flow.
If we get the profit from the calculation of profits and losses,
then we get the cash flow from the calculation of the movement of money.
It is important to remember the recommendation of the American financier Alfredo Rapoport.
I want to mention it again.
Profit is opinion, cash is fact.
The profit is the opinion due to the fact that it can be calculated in different ways due to the nuances of accounting policy.
The cash flow is considered very simple,
it is the difference between the money that was earned in the company at the expense of the accounts in the cash register
and the money that was withdrawn from the company during this period.
The fourth most popular parameter is the profitability of the investment in capital.
It is the so-called ROI, Return on Investment,
when we compare the profit earned during the period with the capital that was in the business during this period and which generated this profit.
34% of the interviewed businessmen consider this indicator to be critically important.
The next parameter was mentioned as the order receipt.
We can say that this is the amount of orders that the company currently has.
For example, we produce kitchen furniture and we are currently provided with orders for this amount.
Some orders we have already almost completed,
some are in 50% readiness, some are already ready, some we have not started yet.
The amount of all the orders that we have at the moment is the value of this parameter.
Further, 27% of the interviewed businessmen say that the critically important indicator in their practice is the indicator of the added economic value.
This is the economic profit that we consider to be the minus of the so-called added costs.
This value differs from the so-called accounting profit by the percentage that we calculate for the value of our own capital.
The idea here is quite simple.
A shareholder makes a profit when the income in the place where he has money exceeds the expenses in this place and the unpaid income in another place.
This unpaid income in another place is subtracted together with the expenses from the income of this company.
As a result, we have the so-called economic profit or the English equivalent of economic value added.
Another parameter that is critically important for 22% of the interviewed companies is the profitability of sales.
This is the share of the profit in turnover.
What margin do we work with?
The last indicator, which is the most popular, is the profitability of our own capital.
ROE is the profitability of the capital in business, both personal and debt-related.
If we calculate the ROE, we can say how effectively we have worked out the money of the owner,
only the money of the owner invested in our company.
The projection of the client and product.
Here, if we believe the results of the survey, the most popular indicator is the customer satisfaction index.
94% of the interviewed businessmen said that they consider this indicator to be critically important.
This is understandable, because in competitive markets it is very important for companies to build relationships with their customers.
It is important to think every day about how satisfied they are with us and how loyal they are to us.
This indicator cannot be obtained from the balance sheet of the report on profits and losses or the report on the movement of money.
We can get this indicator only by conducting a survey of our clients.
Usually, this is a certain point estimate on a certain scale, for example, 10 points.
In the last year and a half, I was involved in the collection of procedures from different companies and industries,
how companies in their industry, in their business, are trying to calculate this increase.
With what periodicity, according to what method.
I will be glad to offer you these developments.
The first example is the company that produces lasers.
For medical and scientific purposes, the company works with both dealers and end customers.
Periodically, the company sends a simple survey to its clients, A4 format, one-page only.
In this survey, the company asks its dealers and end customers to give it a point for the design of its device,
for its quality, for its functionality, for the terms of execution of the order, for service support, and so on.
Dear customers, give us a point on a 10-point scale.
One minimum, 10 maximum, according to each of the parameters that we included in this survey.
In addition to giving points, the customers can also leave comments.
I give you 8 points, I explain why.
I give you 5 points for the design, I explain why.
And the last question in this survey is very interesting.
They call it a rating.
In this last survey, they ask customers to give a total score, a general, average, for everything,
and give points to competitors.
If a customer works with competitors, then the customer can give a point not only to the company, but also to the competitors.
The company wants to understand whether it is just as poor as everyone else, or whether it looks better or worse against the background of competitors.
Many customers send feedback and say that we give you an 8 on a 10-point scale on average,
and to some of our competitors we give 5, 6, and 10.
Something similar is done by a company engaged in logistics services.
The company has a client base of about 1500 clients,
of which about 1200 are stable clients, with whom the company works constantly,
and 300 are disposable clients who come and go.
Once the company decided to measure the satisfaction of its own clients,
it also developed a survey, also one-page only,
at the top was an appeal to the respected client,
we thank you for your cooperation with us for the last 5 years,
we sincerely strive to become better, please help us in this.
Please answer the following questions.
At the bottom, thank you very much for your cooperation with the respected CEO.
The CEO personally signed 1500 letters to the client,
not on a printer, but by hand.
They put this survey in an envelope, put a New Year's card in it,
and sent 1500 letters to their clients.
As far as I remember, 8 surveys were returned.
8 surveys, a very small percentage of the return was.
The company came to the conclusion that it made two mistakes.
The first mistake was on New Year's Eve,
the client does not have time to answer questions of the partners they work with,
and the second moment they decided that by mail it was unsuccessful.
If it was by email, it would probably be better,
it would be easier for the client to tick in Word and send back by email.
After a while, they repeated this procedure,
and after sending 1500 letters to the client, they received 120 filled out surveys.
120 feedbacks, a fairly thick folder, there is something to think about.
Some companies that want to calculate this figure,
ask themselves how we can stimulate our clients so that they answer these questions.
One company that produces shoes tried to solve this issue in the following way.
When they sell shoes to clients, they have their own production and their own retail.
In stores, when customers buy shoes, they are given a piece of paper, a survey,
and they say that when you wear shoes, you will understand how it suits you.
You can ask them to fill out the survey,
they have a 5-point scale, 1-5 maximum, and send it back.
If you do this, you will become a participant in the draw.
Win a baseball, win a microwave, win a hairdryer, and so on.
Those who send them a survey, they become a contender for a microwave.
When we looked at the entire volume of letters sent back with the commercial director,
the average score was quite high, 4.9-4.8.
The commercial director thinks that there was a mistake.
A client who puts 3-2 points in his heart,
most likely, wishing to win a microwave, will put 5 points.
He has a suspicion that if he puts a real score of 2, 3, or 4,
he will be automatically excluded from the list of contenders for this famous microwave.
What other procedures can be used to calculate the value of this indicator?
Car sales.
Car dealer.
At each point where cars are sold and their service is carried out,
a computer is installed.
The computer is called an e-book of reviews.
Each passenger or each client who has moved their car for repair
can come to this computer, formulate their own feedback,
what they think about the company, put a point, press Enter.
Information is sent online to the general director's office.
The general director can collect information from all the car dealers within 2 seconds.
An alternative procedure in this business is a phone survey.
Clients brought their car for repair, left it for a number of days,
and a few days later they get a call from the call center.
The employees ask how they liked their car, what complaints they had,
what they could say, what score they could give.
Another procedure can be used in retail.
Imagine a hypermarket.
Clients have made some purchases, leave the store,
and there is a ballot box at the exit.
There is a poster next to it.
Don't pass by, help us become better.
The poster urges clients to throw a red, yellow or green piece of paper into the ballot box.
If everything is fine, no complaints, the client throws a green piece of paper.
If there were any complaints, everything is fine, he throws a yellow one.
If there are any terrible problems, the client can throw a red piece of paper.
A small one.
It is clear that clients do not write on these pieces of paper why they throw a yellow or red piece of paper.
Every Friday, the management of the company collects these ballot boxes from all the stores
and throws them on the table in their office.
It monitors the percentage of green, red and yellow.
This is so-called light artillery.
If the percentage of red and yellow becomes too high,
the so-called heavy artillery enters.
Then the employee at the checkout spends some time at the exit from the hypermarket
and asks the client to fill in the questionnaire,
to put a point for this, for that, for that.
Only after the questionnaire do you understand what problems you have.
But as a light artillery, these red, yellow and green pieces of paper can be used.
We see that 94% of the businessmen who have been approached
consider this indicator to be critically important.
94% of companies understand that in highly competitive markets
it is extremely important to get feedback from their own clients.
The market share is in second place in terms of popularity.
The third place in terms of popularity is the share of timely deliveries.
A large percentage of respondents believe that it is very important to serve clients on time
and monitor these indicators.
The volume of sales to new clients
tells us whether we can attract new customers.
The same popularity of the indicators, the volume of sales,
or the number of regular customers,
tells us whether we can maintain the client base.
The number of advertisements can be an inexpensive substitute
for the customer satisfaction index.
Some companies refuse to measure the customer satisfaction index,
replacing it with the number of advertisements.
The problem is that not all clients send advertisements.
They may simply not send, but never come back.
Some clients send advertisements, but we are not satisfied with it.
There are clients who just leave, and we don't want that.
Let's move on to the business process projection.
Let's look at the indicators that companies from different branches
consider critically important in their practice.
The first place is the share of marriage and quality.
It is clear that this is a very popular indicator.
The second place is the popularity of sales to new products.
44% of respondents say that this is a very important indicator
in their business, taking into account their strategy.
What does it say?
I think it tells us how innovative the company is.
There is a point of view that if about 30% of the company's sales
are to new products or services that we have offered
to our clients this year, we can consider ourselves
an age-old business.
Nobody wants to get old, they want to be young forever.
In principle, this is one of the indicators of the company's youth.
If it is able to launch popular products and services
to the market year by year, update its line,
it can be considered as not aging.
This is a very important indicator.
The third place is the time to market indicator.
It tells us about the time that the company needs
to cover the entire distance.
It tells us from the moment of the idea that it would be good
to launch a product or service to the market.
Until the moment of the offer of the product or service
to the final buyer.
This is a very important parameter in many industries.
It is important that the chain of processes works very fast.
That the researchers and designers
quickly come up with the product,
that the production quickly develops,
that the buyers quickly buy,
that the production quickly does,
that the logistics works like a clock.
Someone from the managers said that in the 21st century
there will be only two types of companies,
fast and dead.
If we do not want to be dead, we must be fast.
We need to know how much time our company needs
to cover the distance.
From the moment of the idea to the moment of the offer
of a new product or service to the target audience.
The time of processing of orders is a piece of the time to market.
It is how much time we need to complete the order.
It is a very popular indicator.
We can see the number of orders
and the number of orders.
It is a proof of innovation.
The company is moving forward with the modern technologies.
Let's look at the popular indicators of the last projection.
The projection of the staff.
The company tries to understand the state of its staff.
The first place is the indicator
called the employee satisfaction index.
It is very similar to the customer satisfaction index.
It allows the businessman to get feedback.
Before, the businessman received feedback from the clients.
Now the businessman receives feedback from the staff.
The staff informs the employer about their feelings,
what they like and what they do not like.
One well-known German company
uses three procedures to measure the satisfaction of its employees.
Every day, the office workers turn off their computers
and click on one of the physiognomies on the monitor.
The monitor asks how satisfied the employees were with their work.
If the employee is satisfied,
he clicks on the smiling green physiognomy.
If he is not satisfied,
he clicks on the sad red physiognomy.
If there were problems,
but there was also something good today,
he clicks on the yellow physiognomy.
This is also a so-called light artillery.
The employer is not able to understand
why the employees clicked on the sad red physiognomy.
Therefore, heavy artillery is periodically launched.
This is a survey.
Twice a year, a detailed survey is carried out in this company.
The employees can fill out a large survey.
There are 8 pages.
The employer asks the employees,
using a six-digit scale,
what they think about the working conditions,
how much they like the work,
what are the career opportunities that the company provides to employees,
how to build relationships with the management,
how satisfied they are with the assortment of salads in the canteen.
The employees use a six-digit scale
and can leave their comments,
if they have time,
not just tick, but also write comments.
The procedure can be anonymous.
The employer does not force you to sign.
Firstly, no one forces you to fill out a survey.
Secondly, no one forces you to sign.
Thirdly, the procedure used by this company
to calculate the satisfaction index of its employees
is a special urn in the corridor,
where employees can leave their comments every day.
They can formulate everything they want on a piece of paper in A4 format
and leave it there.
The employer can sign it or not,
but I want it to work.
The employer knows that he wants to change the company.
In the 21st century, there are too many businesses
where everything is decided by the staff,
where there is no equipment,
and the main resource is not software.
The main resource is the staff,
people, and the employers must do a lot
to make the employees feel comfortable.
Many companies pay attention to this indicator,
and periodically calculate the satisfaction index
of their employees.
One of my businessmen,
who works in the IT business,
measures the satisfaction of his employees
using a specific method.
The company works on the junction of two industries.
It is a mix of advertising agency and IT company.
One of the products of this company is a website.
The company is operated by both IT specialists and creatives.
If this company is left to either IT specialist or creatives,
the business will be in a very difficult situation.
The manager has a rule.
He invites each employee to dinner or dinner party
twice a year.
At least once every six months.
The boss invites each employee to dinner party.
The company is not a business.
The boss invites employees to dinner party.
The boss treats the employees.
The boss tries to understand what the employees like,
what they don't like, what they can do for the employees,
what problems they have.
The boss gives the employees an opportunity to speak.
The company has a very important procedure.
The company tries to get feedback from the employees.
The second place is the popularity of the performance indicators.
If the performance index is a bit ahead,
the performance is a bit behind.
It is too late to drink a beer when the employees have already voted.
We should use the performance index.
The performance indicator is a very important factor.
The performance indicator is important for 47% of the businessmen.
37% of the businessmen think that the performance indicator
is very important for the disease.
People get sick as much as they have time.
The company pays for it.
If the company pays for it,
the employees would not want to get sick.
The company pays for it.
31% of the employees voted.
I liked the idea of visualization of management accountability.
In every structure of the company,
in logistics, accounting, marketing,
there is a glass jar on the window sill.
There are tennis balls in it.
Usually, there are several balls in every structure.
In one department there are 8 balls, in another 2 balls, in the third one there are 14 balls.
But everyone has something in this jar.
There are two colors of balls, white and orange.
The white balls inform us about the number of proposals
that the employees of this department have made for the management of the company.
The orange ones are the proposals that have been implemented.
We come to the accounting department in July.
There are 4 balls in the jar.
3 white balls and 1 orange ball.
What does it mean?
The accounting department has submitted proposals 3 times,
but they were not accepted for some reason.
The idea of accounting was realized,
it worked, it brought an economic effect.
If it happened, the accounting department has the right to put this orange ball in its jar.
We come to the logistics department.
There are 8 balls, 6 orange and 2 white.
The ideas that came from the logistics department were listened to,
but not accepted.
6 ideas were accepted, implemented, earned, brought some economic effect.
The chief logistics officer proudly shows his colleagues a glass jar,
where in July there are already 8 balls.
The revenue per person is also a very popular indicator.
How much money does one employee bring us?
The productivity of labor was also noted as a very important indicator.
17% of businessmen in Europe were employed.
As an example of what can be in the second projection,
except for the above-mentioned ones,
I would like to offer you a sample of the system of balanced indicators
of the football club of the Russian Federation.
The head of the football club Erwin Staudt
told me that all the businesses in this hall
are very simple compared to the business of the football club.
The main business is football.
Most companies in their business need to build relations with clients and suppliers.
And if you are in charge of a football club,
you need to build relations not only with clients, but also with fans.
There is a very interesting part for the audience,
it's the fans, with whom you need to build specific relations.
But in addition to the clients, the head of the football club
has to build relations with the European Football Association,
with the International Football Federation,
with TV channels, sponsors, agents who can steal football players.
According to Erwin Staudt, he has to build relations with his own mother-in-law.
She periodically calls him at 11.30 a.m.
in the middle of the working day,
and asks him,
why didn't you play last season?
I'm very sorry for him,
I'm afraid he has an injury or something happened to him.
Erwin Staudt asked the audience,
how long has it been since your mother-in-law called you at 11.30 a.m.
and asked how your financial director was doing.
The content of these cards
is the same for two companies from the same industry.
There are two or three companies
that are direct competitors,
and work in the same industry.
The projection of the finances
can be absolutely the same.
Most companies say that they have a profit,
cash flow, and we want to invest more
so that the shareholders' well-being is better.
The indicators may differ,
because some companies are focused on earning billions,
some companies are satisfied with millions,
and some companies are satisfied with thousands.
It's worth mentioning that in most industries
you can earn money in different ways.
Some industries earn money in thousands,
and some industries earn money in a way that is less.
But the way we earn money
is defined in the projection of the client's products,
business processes, and infrastructure.
Let's take a look at this topic.
A company produces lasers for medicine and science.
A company can work in three formats.
The first format is leadership in costs.
The company is quite simple,
solid, and unpretentious.
It's called a laser.
It's a standard, inexpensive,
and quite good laser.
This is the scenario of the company's development.
It can be written in projection 2, 3, and 4.
The company can rely on innovation.
It can rely on investing a lot of money
in research and innovation.
The third scenario is to go into the so-called
in-poshive, the so-called customization
of laser production for each specific customer.
These are the companies that serve customers
who want a laser to be yellow,
so that the angles are round,
and the lamp is moved a little to the left.
This is the kind of laser I want.
It's not innovative, but it's tailored to my specific needs.
In this business, the company has three formats of work.
One of them it has to choose for itself
and write it down in the client-product projection,
business process, and personal infrastructure.
We can say that 80% of the direct competitors' cards
match, but 20% we leave for some differences,
nuances that are important for one business
and less important for another.
There are companies of the so-called first echelon,
whose business is largely made up of processes,
purchasing resources, production, branding,
sales, and distribution logistics.
There are companies with a chain
that pay more attention to two processes,
neocor and branding.
There are companies of the second echelon
that don't spend a penny on neocor,
but bet on the release of branded generics.
Their business will consist of purchasing resources,
production, branding, sales, and distribution logistics.
And finally, there are companies of the third echelon
that refuse not only neocor, but also branding.
Their business will consist of purchasing resources,
production, sales, and distribution logistics.
So, in each industry, the same money
can be earned in several ways.
Our specific way is what we prescribe in our card.
We have a specific way of making money.
Our competitor can prescribe it in a different way.
Our third competitor can prescribe it in a different way.
It is important to understand this.
The conclusion I want to make is that
80% of the cards of direct competitors match.
20% I leave for the difference.
Companies cannot be the same.
Each business should have some difference from the competitor.
The concept of strategy revolves around the concept of uniqueness.
Another important point when developing a card
is the methodology and work with people
who create this card.
Many companies have a need to leave the company
once a year for 2-3 days,
turn off their mobile phones,
and think about how to live.
Many companies do it more often.
But, perhaps, once a year this card needs to be updated.
The format can be as follows.
15-20 main managers
leave for 2-3 days,
turn off their mobile phones,
and work in mini-groups to create a card.
If 15-20 people participate in this process,
it can be divided into 3-4 groups.
Each mini-group will have someone from finance,
logistics, production, marketing.
The first task is to suggest
a version of what should be in the finance department.
What financial goals should we set?
What indicators should we use?
There are mini-groups A, B, and C.
We listen to these 3 opinions,
discuss them, and make a compromise.
We put a check mark and move on to the second project.
We work in mini-groups again.
These 3 groups work in parallel,
and develop their vision of what should be in the product department.
Who are our clients? Who are not our clients?
What should the product portfolio look like?
What positions do we want to achieve in the market?
This is a compromise.
If we work according to this scheme,
a lot of ideas are born in mini-groups.
People accumulate a lot of good ideas
in 12-11 months.
They come to this meeting like chemists.
It is important for them to get their ideas out of their cheeks.
The list of ideas can be quite large.
The authors of this method say
that a map should include 20 key goals.
Big business goals.
There can be a lot of ideas in groups.
When we discuss these ideas after working in mini-groups,
these ideas have 3 ways.
Some ideas can be included in the top level,
in the company's overall map.
Some ideas can be included in the structure department's map.
Some ideas can be included in the trash bin.
I was present at the development of a legal company's map.
The company provides legal services.
We work in mini-groups.
One of the ideas was to replace the carpet in the reception room.
It is a claimant's idea.
It is one of the problems of the company.
Customers come to the office,
wait for their meeting with their consultants.
They are offered to look through the magazine,
drink coffee, sit on the couch,
and say that the carpet in the office has not been changed for a long time.
It is dirty and needs to be replaced.
The head of the department can handle this task.
Such things are not included in the corporate strategic goals map.
It is one of the activities that contributes to the achievement of larger goals.
These goals are recorded in the top level map.
Such ideas are sent to the structure department at the discussion stage.
There are things that are included in the trash bin.
Here are a couple of examples.
The business is selling spare parts for cars.
The main competence is selling spare parts.
One of the managers believes that the company should try itself out
in the STO market, in the technical service market,
in the car repair market.
The company believes that this is a fundamentally different business.
It seems that everything is simple in this business.
The company does not believe that we should do this.
We will not get there.
This idea, which claims the status of a strategic goal,
ended up in the trash bin.
Another example is kitchen furniture.
The company has made comfort kitchen furniture.
They cost a certain amount of money.
Some employees of the company think that it makes sense to try to earn something
in another segment, in the premium segment.
An idea came up, an offer came up to formulate a goal
to expand the product portfolio of premium kitchen furniture.
After a long discussion, it was decided to refuse.
For a number of reasons, the same idea ended up in the trash bin.
When we develop ideas in groups that claim to get into the top-level map,
not everyone will get there.
They can get into the trash bin and into the map of the division structure.
Peter Horvat, one of the gurus who writes books on this topic,
and does a lot of implementation of this system,
offers a so-called Horvat filter.
He offers businessmen to structure ideas in groups
in four fields of a simple matrix.
He offers to evaluate ideas in terms of how complex they are
in terms of practical implementation.
Do we need to spend a lot of money on this?
Do we need to spend a lot of effort, a lot of money,
a lot of time to implement these ideas?
This is the first variable for creating a matrix.
The second variable is the influence on competitiveness.
How seriously these ideas that were developed in groups
will contribute to the growth of competitiveness of our business.
The matrix is made up of four squares.
The first square is the idea that is not complex in terms of practical implementation.
The company should not spend a lot of money, effort,
and time to implement them.
But even if it does, the company does not grow significantly.
This is the first square.
The second square is the idea that is complex in terms of practical implementation,
but does not contribute to the significant growth of business competitiveness.
One company was offered to move to a new office.
In the suburbs, somewhere you want to move to the city center.
It costs a lot of money, but after discussion,
they decided that there would be no radical breakthrough in competitiveness.
This is an example of the second square,
where the ideas of the two companies will be developed.
The third square is the idea that is complex in terms of practical implementation.
The ideas are expensive, but do not contribute to the growth of business competitiveness.
At least in this period.
The third square is the idea that costs a penny,
is inexpensive in terms of resources, time, and is not complex in terms of implementation.
But if we do this, it will significantly increase the competitiveness of our company.
And finally, the fourth square is the ideas that are complex and expensive in terms of practical implementation.
But if we do this, it will again contribute to the growth of business competitiveness.
And it is quite clear that we are discussing two squares,
which we have listed as ideas that contribute to the growth of business competitiveness.
There are no expensive ones, no complex ones,
but first of all, we must introduce and fix in the cards
those phrases that are designed to increase the competitiveness of our business.
Such a simple tool,
but it is very useful for the development of business competitiveness.
It is a very simple tool,
it helps businessmen to create a card,
and helps them to bring their own ideas into a certain system.
I highly recommend it.
So, we have prescribed our own strategic concept in four projections.
If our company is small,
in which the leadership of the company can touch any employee,
then in such companies, as a rule, one card is enough for everyone.
It hangs in the office, everyone walks around it, everyone remembers it, everyone sees it,
and everyone tries to match their own actions
with the goals of the business in the corporate card.
But if the company is large enough,
then in such a company, as a rule,
on the basis of the corporate card,
the corporate cards of the company as a whole are made of the cards, goals and indicators of structural divisions.
In the methodology, this is called cascading or decomposition.
That is, it is the creation of such understandable cards for structural divisions.
For example, the company works on the market of quickly mounted metal structures.
The building is made of quickly mounted metal structures.
For example, it can be a logistics center, a production room, a store,
or a salon where cars are sold.
The company consists of six main structural divisions.
This is the sales department, logistics department,
design department, construction department,
financial accounting service, and the organizational development service.
Six main structural divisions.
The corporate card was created,
and six cards were produced for the main structural divisions.
For the sales department, for the design department,
for the logistics department, for the construction department,
for the financial accounting department, for the organizational development department.
Let's talk about the rules of creating the cards of structural divisions,
and how the cards of structural divisions are connected with the system of operations.
The general logic of this work is presented on this slide.
There is a corporate card,
and we are trying to make cards for the main structural divisions.
Everything here depends on the organizational structure of the company.
If the company consists of relatively large companies,
then the company is a company that has a large number of employees.
If the company consists of a small company,
then the business units are relatively independent.
Each of them has its own clients.
For clients, a product portfolio is made.
The business units cards will be the same as the business price cards.
There will be finances, income minus expenses equals profits.
There will be external clients that need to be serviced,
with whom you need to build relations, loyalty to which needs to be increased.
There will be processes, there will be some kind of personnel policy,
and goals in the area of infrastructure.
But the company usually has a number of service units,
accounting, IT department, personnel management department,
legal department.
For them, too, cards are needed.
And they also have their own projection of finances.
All these structural units must fit into the budget.
If the company lives in the budget, then the accounting, IT, HR,
personnel management, and legal department have their own budgets.
They have their own budgets, which they protected at the meeting of the Budget Committee,
signed with blood and must fulfill.
Therefore, they also have a projection of finances.
They all have a projection of processes.
In accounting, their processes are carried out,
in IT department, their processes,
in legal department, their processes.
Everyone also has a projection of personnel.
People work everywhere, people have some competencies,
people have some kind of satisfaction or dissatisfaction.
All this needs to be measured, it needs to be managed.
There is also infrastructure in each department.
The question is whether there is a projection of the client.
In many companies, the concept of an internal client is introduced.
And I want to tell you about this using the example of a company that works on the market of buildings
made of quickly assembled metal structures.
The organization consists of six main structural units.
Construction, logistics, construction of finances,
and development of the market.
If you look at the map of the goals and indicators of the logistics department in this company,
it says that the internal client is to increase the satisfaction of internal clients.
Who is the internal client of the logistics department?
It is a colleague from the structural units.
He works with the construction department more than with the sales department.
They meet more often, argue more often, cooperate more often.
But in any case, the logistics department in this company communicates with everyone,
interacts with everyone, argues with everyone, sometimes there is a conflict with someone.
And the management of the company believes that it is necessary to use an indicator called
the satisfaction index of the internal client,
which would stimulate the logistics department to increase the satisfaction of the colleagues
with whom they have to work.
Once a quarter, the logistics department receives points from the sales department,
from the construction department, from the financial department,
and from the organizational development department.
These are colleagues at the same level in the hierarchy, plus a point from the general director.
The points are evaluated by three parameters.
The first parameter is the quality of the performance of the duties.
The financial director is asked how satisfied he is with the quality of the performance of the duties of the main logistics department.
How satisfied he is with the quality of the work of the logistics department.
And how satisfied he is with the time of performance of the duties.
The second parameter is how satisfied you are with the politeness and friendliness of the logistics department.
So, the three main parameters.
The quality of the performance of the duties in relation to someone as an internal client.
The second parameter is the time of performance of the duties in relation to someone as an internal client.
And the third parameter is politeness and friendliness in the process of corporate communication.
This is also evaluated by points.
The management hopes that this system will allow the relationship in the team to heal a little.
If I know that my colleagues from the structural departments will give me points at the end of the quarter,
then I try not to use non-normative vocabulary and I am not satisfied with them at all.
In fact, this is a circular assessment, because everyone gives a point to everyone and, in turn, gets points from everyone.
In principle, this is anonymous, because the logistics department receives points and comments from the structural departments.
The points are not signed and the comments are not signed either.
But in principle, as a rule, the logistics department guesses who wrote what comment.
But it is very important to write a comment, because the logistics department must understand why they were given such a low point,
what they need to work on, or why they were given such a high point.
In this company, this is related to the compensation system.
The quarterly bonus is tied to this point.
Bonuses start to be added from the average point equal to 7.
That is, if less than 7 points were scored for quality, or for timeliness, or for politeness and friendliness, then there are no bonuses.
Bonuses start to be added quarterly, if the average point is 7.1, 7.2 and so on.
The more points, the more bonuses.
The so-called satisfaction index of the internal client.
The internal clients must be satisfied with the quality of their duties, their timeliness, and the third parameter, politeness and friendliness in the process of corporate communication.
The conclusion is as follows.
At the structural level, we observe the same four projections.
The financial projection.
There are structural units in which only expenses arise, they must fit into the budget.
The second projection is the clients.
The units at the front will have external clients and internal colleagues, with whom you also need to build relations.
The units at the rear, the service services, will have internal clients, who must be serviced on time and efficiently.
Everyone has a projection of processes and personnel.
There are many companies in the world that have built the logic of management of goals and indicators not only for structural units of the second and third levels, but also for individual employees.
Ideally, it looks like this.
Each employee has a diary.
On the 15th of May, he has some routine tasks for the day.
Call, send a report, do this job, remind the accountant, etc.
These are some routine tasks for the day.
Ideally, each employee has a daily map of goals and indicators for the year.
It is written that the goals are like this, the indicators are like this, and so it is related to the salary.
Today's actions should be related to the company's goals for the year and to what is written in the company's map.